Since master of science students are future scientists, principal training on written and visual 
expression of academic works is crucial part of post-graduate courses. The first lecture of 
Research Methods Module (GEOL0037) in Department of Earth Science, University College 
London (UCL) fundamentally presents communication in science. The main aim of the first 
lecture is the introduction of the course schedule and instructs guiding information which will 
be useful not only dissertation process, but also eventual scientific works of the current 
master students. Here the lecturer shows, through analysis of scientific papers, reports or 
theses, they ensue the same outline respectively: title, abstract, introduction, methods, results, 
discussion, conclusions, acknowledgments and references, whereas abstract, which includes 
the "essential information" (Landes, 1966, p. 1992), is the most important section of a paper, 
article or thesis. Comparisons of different types of text editing computer programs show that 
markup language is more beneficial than What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG) 
design. Besides written works, graphical or visual expression is the second most important 
part of academic works. Graphical excellence eliminates complexity of ideas and long 
comprehension time in modest space. Using visual expressions in studies is not sufficient 
independently. Unmeasured or unnecessary graphical expressions affects reliability of these 
studies. Inattentive designed charts cause distraction of audiences or readers. Preparing of 
effective visuals is possible with vector graphics rather than raster graphics because of 
unlimited spatial resolution. The lecture also includes a parody PowerPoint presentation 
which is intentionally made instead of tedious method in order to show the conceptual style 
of academic presentation. Analysis of prevalent mistakes on a real PowerPoint slide 
illustrates main points to consider. Despite PowerPoint presentation, poster presentation is 
another aspect of scientific communication. The key point of the making an effective research 
poster is concentrate entire study with graphical excellence in systematic structure.
