Dr Pieter Vermeesch introduced himself as the lecturer for Research Methods. He outlined good scientific writing. Throughout, Dr Pieter gave resources by K. K. Landes, Donald Knuth, and Edward Tufte as guidance for good report writing.
A paper should have nine sections: main title, abstract, introduction, scientific methods, results, a discussion, conclusion, acknowledgements, and references. Dr Pieter concluded most readers only have time for, or can access, the abstract so we focused on writing a good one. From the abstract, the reader should be able to reproduce the experiment. We give results for this to be possible. We concluded an abstract should be self-contained so the reader can obtain any crucial information from just the abstract. 
The title is another section always accessible to the reader; therefore, it should be catchy and contain keywords from the experiment. The introduction should contain background information so the reader has context for the experiment. It should also outline the content of the paper. The methods section includes the experimental procedure so others can reproduce it. The results section should be as objective as possible. We state results without interpreting them or their significance. When stating results, we include error propagation and uncertainties in our numbers. In the discussion, we comment on the relevance of our results and reach scientific conclusions. With the conclusion, we discuss possible experiment improvements, including how to avoid mistakes. We should also include an extension so others can contribute to our work. After the scientific sections, we include an acknowledgments section to thank who helped with the paper but is not a co-author.  This includes any organization that funded our research. Finally, we cite our sources. Different journals use different referencing styles, but we can change styles with a reference manager. Dr Pieter says he prefers the Harvard style but this is not mandatory as long as we are consistent in style. Regardless, we should not include URLs in the bibliography. URLs have a short lifetime and might not be around when someone wants to follow our sources. However, printed material is forever. 
Next, Dr Pieter gave writing tips. Write simply so the audience can keep up with the discussion. Over-complicating does not attract readers and seems like the writer cannot communicate properly. Write as if speaking aloud. This guarantees sentence variation and better flow. 
Dr Pieter then gave advice on software to write papers with and to edit images. With WYSIWYG programs, what we write onscreen is the final product. They rely on manual input and last minute additions can lead to un-formatting chaos. Markup languages are friendlier. They use input code to output a separate final document, keeping everything organized. With images, use raster programs to edit photographs and vector programs to make graphics. Vector programs produce sharp images with small file size. When creating graphics, consider the crucial factor of ink to information ratio. Do not waste ink on a graphic showing little information. Annotate relevant data points and avoid displaying 3D diagrams on paper. 
