GEOL0037: Research Methods - Abstract Task


For scientific communication to be effective, it must concisely, yet accurately convey one’s research and relevant literature. To achieve this, it is imperative to write clearly, with a coherent structure and using appropriate software tools. Many scientific papers follow a similar structure, however, some remain an ineffective attempt at successfully communicating to their expected audience.

An effective and high-quality research paper should focus on producing sections with the appropriate content. The title should capture the attention of the intended audience, by summarising the crucial information of the topic discussed. An abstract must help the reader to gain an understanding of the content discussed and findings of the research. In ‘A Scrutiny of the Abstract II’, Landes (1966) states that an abstract should not merely outline the subjects discussed, but actually be a ‘condensation’ of the fundamental research and findings. Both the methods and results should be entirely objective. The methodology should provide technical details to ensure the research is replicable. The results should merely tabulate the data, whereas the discussion section should aim to interpret and speculate the data. Knuth devised numerous tips for effective scientific communication in ‘Mathematical Writing’ (1966). His primary point was about lucidity; good writing is coherent, clearly explained, and where possible, concise.

Software is also of vital importance when communicating effectively. There are two-umbrella forms of typesetting software; ‘What-You-See-Is-What-You-Get’ formats, such as word or google docs; and mark-up languages which use code to write and organise a document. Both have advantages and disadvantages, but overall, mark-up languages can be better for academic writing as they create small files, have embedded equation editors and are easy to reformat.

Graphics can be an advantageous visual aid to assist in the explanation of complex concepts and visually represent statistics. However, these can be unhelpful if filled with ‘chart junk’ or have a poor ink-to-information ratio. Thus, an intelligent graphic will convey a complex idea with clarity. Additionally, graphical excellence extends to using the appropriate files. Vector files are best used for illustrations and raster files are best used for images. Graphics should aid the transfer of information to the audience in both written and oral presentations. Powerpoint presentations and posters that use poor graphics and are text-heavy become cluttered, and are an ineffective delivery of information. 

These recommendations should be considered and incorporated in scientific writing where possible, to ensure the composition is of the highest quality and advance its prosperity.



Knuth, D.E., T.L. Larrabee, P.M. Roberts (1989)
	‘Mathematical Writing’, Mathematical Association of America, Washington D.C.
Landes, K.K. (1966)
	‘A Scrutiny of the Abstract II’, The Bulletin of the American Association of 	Petroleum Geologists,  50(9)