The lecture gave a broad introduction into the aspects of good scientific writing, how one approaches scientific writing and presenting writing. What makes scientific writing good, is clarity. Clear, simply delivered information that a reader can digest and understand is key to all writing; especially in scientific literature. The abstract should be summative and informative, allowing the reader to clearly understand the purpose of the paper. The body of text should flow well and highlight important information clearly, such as figure captions. Each section of the paper should be clear as to it purpose, the methodology should be an instruction guide on how to recreate the experiment, the results should be tabulated findings and graphical representation with no interpretation or bias. If each section is done well, the writing should be simple to understand. When looking at graphics they must be clear, not overusing ink or under using ink; they should be appealing to the eye. The way in which one should go about writing their paper, is to put themselves in the shoes of the reader by going over their work and rereading and rewriting, till it is easily understood. The way in which one approaches writing their work can be made simpler through the utilisation of correct software. Instead of relying on WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) software for writing, such as Word, you can learn to use markup language, such as LaTeX. By choosing to change software you can drastically improve efficiency of writing long papers; through spending time learning new skills.  Further using the correct software for graphics is also important; making sure you use vector software to create drawings and images and raster editors for photos. Though both produce images, vector editors will always give clear and defined pictures. Raster data uses pixels so is only appropriate for photos, due to the nature of pixels they will become distorted as you zoom in, losing the desired sharp edges. The editors available are diverse and can suit all people with the right instruction. The proper software is key to efficient and well-presented work. The process of presenting data can be done in many manners, though presentations and posters are the most common. When presenting your study, it is important to take the same approach as writing; keep it clear, keep it simple. The problems of text heavy posters and non-sensical power point presentations, is that they do not capture the audience and can lead to confusion. The lecture showed that writing and presenting share the same principles, good, clear and simple writing; and effective graphics. 


