Scientific knowledge underpins our fundamental understanding of the natural world. However, poor communication of this knowledge can create discrepancies in understanding and undermine the rigour of the scientific method. The first lecture of the MSc Geoscience “Research Methods” module introduces the principles that form the basis of effective scientific communication through papers, posters and oral presentations. Overall, complex scientific concepts should be explained to the reader in the simplest terms possible. Written papers conventionally follow a logical structure, starting with an informative, attention-grabbing title to invite the reader. The abstract should summarise the essential content of the paper and is crucially important, as readers are considerably more likely to scan over the paper for key information than read the entire paper. The introduction should include a brief literature review and outline the importance of the study. Researchers wishing to reproduce the investigation should find all the necessary technical details in the methods section. Results must be presented objectively and independent of selection bias; interpretation of the results is the role of the subsequent discussion section. Key findings should be summarised in the conclusion and future research suggested. Acknowledgements of research grants and of those, excluding co-authors, who have helped with the study usually follow the conclusion. Finally, a list of references to other papers ensures that the work of other writers is acknowledged. A scientific poster should display a summary of the scientific study through clear, logically-ordered graphics, supplemented with short blocks of text, all of which must be legible at A0 scale from a one metre distance. Too much text and too many equations are discouraged, as they are can be off-putting to the reader. PowerPoint presentations must be treated with similar care: clear, information-rich graphics should take precedence over brief, easily-misinterpreted bullet points. All graphics should convey information with as little ink as possible. Two fundamental types of graphic exist: (1) vector graphics, often used for line drawings as they scale infinitely; and (2) raster graphics, which should be used for photographs only as they produce bitmaps. Comparisons between typesetting software determine that markup languages, such as LaTeX, are superior over conventional “What You See Is What You Get” (WYSIWYG) text editing packages as they afford the writer greater control over long, complex documents whilst maintaining smaller file sizes. The methods of scientific communication taught in this lecture should be incorporated into future assignments and research studies, especially the master’s thesis.


