
Effective scientific communication results from being able to explain complex phenomena in simpler, concise language while remaining engaging to a target audience. This study aims to summarise the ways in which communication can be improved by drawing on the following examples: writing an abstract and structuring a scientific report, typesetting documents, displaying graphical data, and successfully creating a PowerPoint presentation or scientific poster. 
Many previous studies have aimed to elucidate the most effective ways to write scientific reports and present quantitative data, however it remains less clear which ways are most successfully able to typeset documents and synthesise information on a PowerPoint or poster. Many examples of poor abstracts and inadequate handling of statistical data can be found throughout the scientific literature, hence the reason for this study. 
An abstract must summarise the key information from the paper concisely while avoiding reciting the subjects covered. There should be an emphasis on the purpose and motivations for the study with a focus on what makes the paper a significant contribution. Here, it is shown what makes a competent or incompetent abstract with reference to examples. The general structure of a scientific report is as follows: 1. Title 2. Abstract 3. Introduction 4. Methods 5. Results 6. Discussion 7. Conclusions 8. Acknowledgements 9. References. The abstract will be the most read part of the report and so it is essential to consider as more than an afterthought when preparing a paper for publication. 
Commonly used software to type and format documents such as essays, reports and webpages are also important considerations for effective communication. This study assesses these major software packages and their advantages and disadvantages while focusing on What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG) designs vs. markup languages. It is shown that markup languages offer more benefits in the majority of cases despite taking more time to learn, while the WYSIWYG design offers a quick and simple solution to producing a document at the expense of several benefits.  
Graphical data is also an important consideration. This study highlights when a dataset is most effectively shown by a table, graph e.g. a scatter or bar graph or some other visual representation such as a choropleth map or comparative image. There is an emphasis that graphs must be both as clear as possible and have a low ‘lie factor’ in order to be as engaging as possible while maintaining credibility. 
PowerPoint presentations and posters are also shown to be essential ways to convey scientific data. Here it is shown how these are made as effective as possible in terms of both visual appeal and clarity of the information being provided, again with reference to examples. 
The techniques outlined throughout this study are important for several reasons including engaging publishers, promoting funding and reaching a wider audience – all skills that are essential in the Earth sciences and transferrable to other fields of study. 

