Candidate Number HJGD4
Abstract: Scientific Report Writing. 492 words.
This lecture describes how to optimally convey scientific information. Making complex information appear simple is a very important skill for scientists. Most good scientific papers are written with the structure outlined below. 
The title gives the key information and catches the eye. Most people don’t read beyond the abstract, so it must condense the essential information, including methods, results and the paper’s importance. The introduction outlines the paper and gives a brief literature survey. The methods describe the technical details, allowing future researchers to reproduce the results. The results should be a summary of values, not to be mixed with the interpretations. Speculation is acceptable in the discussion. The summary of key findings and suggestions for future research are presented in the conclusions. The acknowledgement section should then be used to thank supervisors and funding agencies. The references conclude the paper and should only include peer-reviewed sources, avoiding URLs.
As most readers only scan papers, figures and their captions should contain as much information as possible. Good writing style is important to keep the reader interested. Snappy sentences grab attention. Overcomplication and poor sentence structure should be avoided. Suggestions to develop good style include rewriting and varying sentence length. Writing by hand matches the speed of thought and helps with logical flow of ideas. Cutting down the number of words in a sentence or paragraph without affecting its meaning is a useful exercise to practice. The reader’s viewpoint should be considered to ensure clarity. Sentence fluidity and structure can be tested by reading out loud.
Two toolsets can be used to typeset a paper. WYSIWIG (What You See Is What You Get) has the advantage of being user-friendly for simple documents, but the format is not future-proof and is incompatible with other software. Examples include Microsoft Word and Pages. Mark-up languages like LaTeX and HTML have a steep learning curve but are better at handling equations and complex documents. They are also future-proof, compatible with other software and have much smaller file sizes.
Effective, precise and clear graphics greatly aid the communication of complex ideas. The ink to information ratio should be optimised, without sacrificing annotations. Truthful data is vital; exaggerations and distortions should be avoided. Choice of software for handling graphics is important. Vector tools like Inkscape and Illustrator produce high-precision graphics with infinite special resolution and small file sizes. They should be used for graphs. Formats include .pdf, .svg and .eps. Raster graphics with .jpg, .gif or .tif formats can be manipulated with Photoshop, Paint or GIMP. They have larger file sizes and should only be used for photographs.
Presentations should also display ideas clearly. PowerPoints and research posters easily become overcomplicated and cluttered, which negatively affects the audience’s attention and comprehension. A logical structure, simple graphics as described above and comparatively little text improve engagement. Legibility should be ensured for all audience members.
A scientist following these suggestions will be greatly appreciated and have a long and successful career.
