Today's lecture talks about how to write scientific report.

Dr Pieter Vermeesch began the lecture by presenting general guidelines to write a good scientific paper. 
Most scientific papers and reports follow approximately the same outlines in each part: title, abstract, introduction, methods, results, discussion, conclusions, acknowledgments and references.
Among them, Abstract is arguably the most important part of the paper. K.K. Landes¡¯s paper ¡°Scrutiny of an Abstract¡± further touches upon the importance of abstract: The abstract is read much more times than the entire article. It should not be a mere recital of the subjects covered. The abstract should be a condensation and concentration of the essential information in the paper.


Subsequently£¬Dr Pieter provided some writing skills mentioned in a book called ¡°Mathematical Writing¡±. For example, you should break down complex things into parts and then explain each part; attract the attention of the reader; keep rewriting the article.


In the next part of today¡¯s lecture, 14 useful methods about how to practice writing are shown£ºPractice replacing three words in a sentence without changing the meaning of the sentence; replacing the grammar of the sentence without changing the meaning of the sentence; writing a nonsense that is complete but meaningless; constructing the food you like to eat only by appearance; writing definitions for common words and compare it with the definition in the dictionary; try to write an article rather than type; etc.


Thirdly, Dr Pieter introduced two ways of typesetting: WYSIWYG and markup language. Popular text editing programs such as Microsoft Word follow a ¡°WYSIWYG¡± design, which stands for ¡°What You See Is What You Get¡±. These programs are more user-friendly.  Alternatively, markup languages such as L ATEX and HTML require editing of code in a text editor and rendered in a separate application.
WYSIWYG editors may be easier to learn than markup languages. But the latter often prove to be superior for anything longer and more complicated than a few pages of text.


Next, Dr Pieter gave some examples of efective graphics and bad graphics. An excellent graph should give viewer greatest number of ideas in the shortest time with least ink.

After that, this lecture taught us how to make effective graphics.
1.ink-to-information ratio. It is better to add some annotations made of ¡®informative ink¡¯ to distract attention on the data.
2.¡®Chart junk¡¯. Make the chart clear and effective.
3.Vector vs. raster graphics. Two fundamentally different types of graphics can be chosen: Vector graphics¡ªefficiently display£¬compact in size£¬have infinite spatial resolution£»Raster graphics¡ª¡ª pixelated images£¬ only be used for photographs£¬tend to be larger in size and are pixelated when magnified.


To conclude, this is an excellent lecture to let us know how to write a good scientific report.








