Abstract: A Guide to Scientific Report WritingFollowing an introduction to scientific report writing, it was highlighted and detailed the importance of features comprising a research report, with a particular focus on the content covered which is secondary to the clarity of communicating this information. Likewise, also demonstrating a sufficient understanding of the topic discussed tends to avoid redundancy whilst writing. This greatly impacts the intended outcome of the paper in ensuring the reading audience correctly perceives the authors intentions on the information they wish to convey. As there is no singular method that constitutes how to write a scientific report, the majority of research papers that use a similar outline are used in providing a concise guide to the style and structure appropriate for scientific writing. The guidance given highlighted an evident focus on the abstract, which will further be discussed, alongside sections such as the methodology and conclusion. In addition to this, the title should not be neglected as it provides significant insight to the paper and should articulate in a singular sentence the entirety of its content which is further explored in the abstract. In a Scrutiny of an Abstract (Landes 1951), the critical importance of a well written abstract is discussed due to the significant number of readers who read only the abstract and the title. As discussed by Landes (1951), the abstract is an overview of the paper, a concentration of information essential for other researchers to replicate the obtained results and reconstruct the same conclusions. Also, the abstract should summarise the methodology and results, whilst demonstrating how it contributes to the scientific community.  The difficulties that arise when writing a scientific research paper, as mentioned by Landes (1951), predominantly with the abstract, is often due to the over complexity of the writing style, and the nature to define scientific research and concepts with an array of complicated synonyms, and articulate the information in a way in which even the author does not fully understand their own work. A recurrent error with scientific writing is the tendency to fall into repetition throughout the paper. Particularly reiterating points and information in the abstract, and the excessive complexity of articulating concepts where simplicity would evade misunderstanding. Despite the predominant focus on the significance of an abstract, and how to compose one, subsequent sections in a research paper, such as the methodology, explores the appropriate use of graphics in data presentation and allows future researchers, as previously mentioned, to reproduce experiments and yield similar, if not, exact results of the initial research. Often the information in the results, discussion and conclusion are merged and demonstrate a lack of sufficient understanding in the differences between the features and the placement of information, such as interpreting the scientific significance of the data. Further to this, authors occasionally neglect to include suggestions for future research based on their findings. Conclusively, the guidelines provided firstly stress the importance of understanding scientific report writing, and the significance of practising writing an abstract whilst undertaking the process of peer reviews and assessments to better one’s writing style and skills in articulation. 