This dissertation aims to present a general summary of the Science Report Writing, allow to help better understanding of how to write a good scientific paper. There are mainly 5 different parts that will be discussed in this paper and each part will show some suggestions and comparisons for preparing a good essay.
One of the most essential things is to follow the correct structure of scientific paper (Title, Abstract and Introduction…). Abstract is the most important part of the paper and should include a brief summary and conclusion. The detail of writing a good abstract will be presented in the “Security of the Abstract”. It is suggested that using the same reference style at the end of the paper is crucial and do not use URLs as reference. More guidelines for scientific writing will show in this paper in detail.
There is a very useful book for academic writing called Mathematical Writing which is written by Donald Knuth. Many tips and exercises for writing are well discussed in this book and it could be a good tool for modifying the paper. One key sentence in this book is “Everything should always be made as simple as possible, but not simpler” (Albert Einstein).
Two typesetting documents named WYSIWYG and markup language both show their advantages and disadvantages for text editing and formatting. WYSIWYG stands for “What You See Is What You Get” and this popular text editing program includes Microsoft Word or Google Docs, which is much easier to learn than markup languages. LATEX and HTML (Hyper-Text Markup Language) are two examples of Markup language and they can manage long and complex documents perfectly, but these tools require extra learning of editing code in a text editor.
Another book named “The Visual Display of Quantitative Information” shows that using effective graphics can help readers to understand the data well. However, bad graphics display may distract attention away from the data and waste readers’ time on extraneous information. The Principles of Graphical Excellence best explained the importance of using appropriate graphics and figures. Chart junk refers to all visual elements that are not necessary to comprehend the information represented on the graph, such as using more colors or dimensions to overcomplicate the data.
There are two main types of image files: Raster and Vector graphics, which can be used for making effective pictures. Two options are available for different uses. Vector graphics are based on mathematical formulas and are common for images that will be applied onto displaying line drawings and polygons. Raster graphics are made of millions of pixels that should only be used for photographs. Comparing these two options, Raster tends to be larger in size and pixelated when zoomed in, but Vector has infinite spatial resolution.
The paper generally summarizes some tips for writing a good scientific report including structure of the paper, guidelines for writing from Donald Knuth, typesetting comparisons, principles of graphical excellence and two effective graphics for making figures. There is more than one single correct way to write a prefect scientific report, but most papers do follow roughly the same outline in which this paper has presented.
