Quality scientific research can easily be let down by poor writing. There is a wealth of papers available and most readers will scan rather than read in detail. For this reason writing should not be just functional, but also compelling and enticing to potential readers. Generally papers will follow a rough structure of: Title; Abstract; Introduction; Methods; Results; Discussion; Conclusion; Acknowledgements. Of these the abstract is the most vital. This should not simply outline the paper, but provide a concise summary of its content and conclusions, presenting the paper in miniature to the reader. Alongside the title it is the part of the paper read by the most people, and in conjunction the abstract and title will not just inform but also grab the attention. The latter sections are more functional but writing is still important, as poorly structured sentences make a work frustrating and inaccessible. Read out loud to ensure it flows naturally. Be precise and objective when it comes to methodology and results – these should be the inarguable facts of a paper and are crucial for scientists who want to reproduce or cite the work. Speculation and interpretation should be limited to the discussion and conclusion sections.

Regarding digital scientific writing, there are advantages to WYSIWYG software programs such as Word for the average user, due to their ease of use and instant visual feedback. However, scientific writers will find more potential in markup languages such as LaTeX which, while presenting a steeper learning curve, make formatting much simpler to manage in larger documents, can present complex equations out of the box, and result in much smaller and more efficient files.

Where appropriate, graphics can convey the work of an entire paper in an instant. This is especially important as many readers will only scan a paper, and a graphic will instantly draw the eye. They should work efficiently – do not waste ink on visual noise like 3D effects and artwork, particularly if they sacrifice the accuracy of the information being presented. 

Modern graphics are digitally generated, and will be in one of two forms: vector and raster. Vector files are infinitely preferable for diagrams, graphs, and anything drawn digitally from scratch.  Here the preservation of detail is of utmost importance – vector filetypes (.pdf, .svg, .wmf etc.) can be resized with no loss of resolution, thus the same graphic will remain legible even inflated to poster size. As they record images as a series of discrete interacting points, they also generate much smaller files. Raster filetypes (.jpg, .png, .gif, etc.) share none of these benefits, and should only be used when including photographs or scans, which are impossible to represent as vector drawings.

For presenting, posters are better than slideshows as they communicate a paper in a holistic manner, but they must be bold, enticing and easy to read. Where necessary Powerpoint is also useful, but resist the temptation to overwhelm each slide with information – make use of graphics and convey detail through a well-rehearsed spoken presentation. 
