There isn’t a single correct way to write a good scientific paper or report.  However, most published scientific papers contain a common set of sections, following roughly the same outline as each other.  In chronological order, these are as follows. First, there is a title, which summarises the contents of the paper to attract the attention of potential readers.  Below the title, there is an abstract, arguably the most important part of the paper.  Ideally not written in the passive voice, the abstract concentrates and condenses in itself the essential information of the paper.  It doesn’t simply recite the subjects covered by the paper, like some sort of heavily expanded version of the title.  After its abstract, a scientific paper has an Introduction section; which both outlines the structured contents of the paper and includes a brief literature review justifying a set of research questions (and often hypotheses).  Then, there is a Methods section; which provides a sufficient level of technical detail for other researchers to follow in order to reproduce the results of the paper when answering the research questions.  After the Methods section, the results of the study presented in the scientific paper are detailed in a dedicated Results section.  Here, the data themselves (so-called ‘dry facts’) and analysis of them (in the form of statistics) are presented separately; with the former being detailed first.  Next, the scientific significance of the data is inferred in the Discussion section; which draws upon both the data themselves (and statistical analysis of them) and existing literature detailed in the literature review of the Introduction section.  After the Discussion section, a Conclusions section summarises the main findings of the paper, responding to the research questions and outlining the contribution made by the paper to scientific knowledge.  The Conclusions section can include suggestions for future research.   Then, there is a short Acknowledgements section, which thanks any funding agencies, research supervisors, reviewers and others who have contributed to the research but are not co-authors on the paper.  Finally, there is a References section, which follows a set format and only includes proper academic references (e.g. books and journal articles).  Individual papers may include other sections, such as a List of Figures (or Tables) and Appendices.  However, such sections are not always essential.

In following the outline above, a good scientific paper, to paraphrase Albert Einstein, explains everything as simply as possible, but not simpler.  Such a paper uses snappy titles, arresting first sentences and lucid initial paragraphs, amongst other devices, to attract the attention of readers.  When writing a good scientific paper, the author puts themselves in the reader’s place, so that they ensure that the latter understands what is written.  In such a paper, appropriate pacing is ensured by variations in sentence length, whilst frequent repetition of words is avoided; often by reading sections aloud to identify over-uses.  Existing material incorporated into a scientific paper should always be re-written for the new context.  Effective use of both drafting and editing is also important.