The lecture provides detailed suggestions on how to write a good scientific paper. First, a general outline contains fixed parts with matching works can clearly present author¡¯s academic research findings to the reader. The abstract, which could be read 10¡ª500 times more than the entire article, is widely considered as the most important part of the paper. To better tell readers what the paper contributes, the abstract should concentrate on the essential information of the paper as well as giving a concise condensation of its contents.

Additionally, several useful writing exercises given by Mary-Claire van Leunen (1989) can help the writer to be more skillful in scientific writing. For instance, recasting a sentence to underline a different point and reading out your writing loudly.

Two ways of typesetting are indicated with comparison. WYSIWYG, which stands for ¡°What You See Is What You Get¡±, is a design used among popular text editing programs such as Word, Writer, Pages and so on. It can deal with both text and typesetting but always hard to manage complex papers. Alternatively, Markup languages like HTML and LATEX, which use programming language in certain software to edit, can format documents orderly. Although markup languages might be harder to learn than WYSIWYG editors, the former can control over the typesetting of papers better especially when documents are long and complex as well as having a smaller file size.

Moreover, effective graphics can contribute to the expression of the paper significantly. An effectual graphic can provide readers with much more information in the shortest time while using the least ink and the smallest space. The formula of the ¡°Lie Factor¡± (Lie Factor = size of effect shown in graphic/ size of effect in data) can describe the contribution of the graphic in a quantitative way. Also, choosing a fitting digital format is significant for the writer to make the graphics bright. Raster pictures, whose filename extensions are ¡°.jpg¡±, ¡°.gif¡±, ¡°.tif¡±, tend to be pixelated when enlarged. Vector pictures, whose filename extensions are ¡°.pdf¡±, ¡°.svg¡±, ¡°.eps¡±, ¡°.wmf¡±, ¡°.emf¡±, can be saved in a smaller size and have unlimited spatial resolution.

An effective poster of the scientific writing should be considered as an abstract with illustrations, which contains several clear graphics and small amount of concise text. Simple and logical structure like a 2-column or 3-column layout should be used to naturally guide readers¡¯ eyes from the left side of the poster to the right side. What¡¯s more, the text should take only 20-30% of the poster while the remaining 70-80% should be filled by pictures. It is far more impressive to make complex contents look simpler. Furthermore, all contents of the poster should look as simple as possible while it is visible from a 1.5-meter distance.




