Scientific articles are frequently not read in their entirety. The number of available papers, time limitations and the presence of paywalls cause readers to only skim over them to understand if the subject matter meets their needs. The abstract alone is read between 10 to 500 times more often than the article body. This paper looks at methods to increase the amount of people reading, reviewing and referencing a given scientific article. Structure and style play a major role in reaching this goal. While the structure allows readers to have an immediate understanding of where information can be found, the style can captivate readers or lose their attention. The most interesting subject can seem boring if written badly. The simplest of information can seem daunting if unstructured. This work begins by looking at ways to improve the authors writing, giving various exercises to expand their literary style. It then moves on to outline the standard scientific article structure and the role each of its components has. Of these the title, abstract, and figures are the ones that attract most readers as they give a clear idea of the contents, aims and results of the work. While it is quite straightforward that the title of the article should grab the reader’s attention and clearly explain subject of the article, the content of the abstract is slightly more nuanced. An in depth look at what an abstract should be comprised of and how it should be written is given. Figures also have great importance as, through a quick glance, they can convey the information contained in large sections of the article. If done with forethought and attention this is the result one hopes to obtain, on the other hand, if done badly, they can confuse the reader and muddle information. This paper gives examples of both good and bad graphics, and shows the importance of decluttering figures to convey information with the lowest ink to information ratio possible. The use of vector and raster graphics and the different situations in which it is preferable to use one or the other are outlined. A good article should not only convey information, but should be pleasant to read, and simple for the author to write, structure and modify. This is where editing software comes in. While WYSIWYG software is easy to use, markup language software is more powerful and results in a more aesthetically pleasing final product. The latter gives structure, order and beauty to an article, and this in turn makes reading it more pleasant. A final look is given to an important component for the article distribution: the media used for the  presentation. Guidelines for creating reader friendly posters that convey the central arguments, results and conclusions are given, and the pros and cons of using Powerpoint slides to present your work are expressed. 