Abstract writing exercise
 
Effective scientific writing is an essential skillset for any aspiring scientist, and while there are few hard and fast rules, specific guidelines and presentational techniques should be followed. Good academic writing should strike a balance between analytical accuracy and engaging prose. This can start with an eye-catching title or an abstract that provides just enough information to both inform and intrigue the reader. Indeed, an abstract, such as this, may well be the most important part of the entire work, as most individuals will not get beyond this point. It is, therefore, in the authors best interest to engage and inform the reader in as effective a manner as possible by keeping the abstract concise, descriptive, and memorable. The same is true of the introduction, which should provide a thorough literature review in addition to further expanding on the core ideas of the study. From here, the method and results section should be kept purely analytical to keep ambiguity to a minimum. The method should be detailed enough that future researchers can easily replicate the experiment, while the results section should just present to facts of the study. Interpretation and speculation of results must be left for the discussion, while the conclusion should be used to summarise key findings and give the reader some indication of future research directions. Finally, acknowledging principal supervisors, funding bodies and referenced material should not be overlooked. No scientist truly works alone, after all.
 
Such methods of writing also apply to other forms of scientific writing, such as posters that outline a piece of research. Here, the need to quickly engage an audience is all the starker, as an onlooker may determine whether they will approach a poster or not in a matter of seconds. A poster that it overly text-heavy, filled with complicated, esoteric equations, and few accessible diagrams to quickly aid understanding is likely to be passed by without a second thought.
 
The importance of good graphical information can also not be understated. All studies produce data, often displayed in tables of numbers. While these are necessary for statistical analysis, they are difficult for any reader to glean relevant information. The proper use of appropriate graphs and diagrams should aid the message you are trying to convey by displaying complex ideas in an easily digestible manner. There are pitfalls, however, which should be avoided. Overcomplicating such images with unnecessary plots and ink detracts from the whole, leading to reader confusion, while omitting key annotations leads to oversimplification and a loss of meaning. Keeping everything scaled appropriately is also critical. Distorted images may better fit the page, but they will also provide a false impression of the information and contribute to the “lie factor”.
 
Good writing does not happen overnight. Any piece must be revised and rewritten multiple times to enhance the prose. Stepping away from the article and returning some days later provides distance allowing the writer to look at it with fresh eyes. The key is to keep things as straightforward as possible while avoiding simplism. People are busy and will most likely scan what they are reading. Make it easy for them and, above all, keep it interesting.