Understanding the qualities of a good scientific report is a fundamental element of scientific writing. There are certain methods that will not only improve the quality of a report but will help to hold the attention of your intended audience. Most scientific papers follow the same general outline, however the title, abstract and methodology should receive significant attention, with most people reading the abstract over any other part of the paper. The majority of the audience may only read the abstract, therefore this section should be informative, concise and should act as a summary of the findings of a report.  This indicates that great care should be taken over the writing style used in scientific reports, and it is recommended to develop one’s technique by practising writing exercises. Donald E. Knuth’s 1996 book ‘Mathematical Writing’, presents a constructive set of exercises designed to aid and improve technical writing.
There are two contrasting paradigms for typesetting a scientific report: user-friendly WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) programs such as Microsoft Word, or Mark-up languages; text processing tools which display code openly, such as LaTeX. The length and complexity of the report should determine the writer’s choice of program, with Mark-up languages possessing considerable advantages if a report includes equations or requires significant formatting. 
The choice and quality of graphics is of great importance, in order to quickly convey key information in a scientific report. Therefore, it is essential to select the most appropriate digital format for any figures and diagrams. Vector formats are recommended if displaying mathematical diagrams, graphs or drawings, however when touching up photographs, raster formats are more suitable to avoid pixilation. It is also important to avoid ‘chart junk’, unnecessary visual elements added by software that can overcrowd the diagram and confuse the reader, and to keep a low ink-to-information ratio.  In order to communicate information effectively, only the minimum set of visuals should be used, especially if presenting graphic heavy work such as posters. 
These suggestions should be practised for future pieces of scientific writing in order to improve the report quality, to appeal to a wider audience and to promote the success of a scientific paper.  

