The first lecture of module GEOL0037: Research Method discussed the method of scientific writing as an introduction to this module. Several guidelines on academic writing were given to students at the beginning, including the structure of academic writing. Books like "Mathematical Writing" (Knuth et al., 1989, Mathematical Association of America) focus on the subject and can provide a wide range of suggestions on how to do better academic writing. Additionally, the book "A Scrutiny of the Abstract, II" mentioned the significance of the abstract within scientific papers: every reader will read the abstract first of all. Therefore, the abstract should not be an extension of the title, but the concentration of the essential information of the paper itself.Although Knuth et al., 1989 advised that it is better to write by hands, we need to use modern writing software to make things more convenient for us. During the first lecture, two types of writing software were compared: WYSIWYG (Word etc.) and markup language. They both have advantages and disadvantages. Popular editing software such as Microsoft Words are easy to learn for most users, but they can seldom handle long and complicated equations; markup language software contain equation editors and can be reformatted easily, in spite of their steep learning curve. Therefore, markup software like LaTeX is more suitable for scientific writing, which may contain a massive quantity of equations.  Visual displays are essential for writings. This lecture also introduced methods on how to visualise papers efficiently. Graphic excellence can be achieved by giving the reader the most information with the shortest reading time, the smallest space and the least ink. Diagrams on newspapers are usually not preferred by academic readers as they use exaggerated visual designs, and they cannot provide the most accurate information. In scientific writings, diagrams are commonly used to provide core information to readers. Therefore, choose a suitable digital format for those diagrams is quite significant. Two different types of graphic formats were introduced during the lecture: vector and raster graphics. Vector graphics can display information with precision, and they have infinite resolution rate; raster graphics should only be used for photographs, and they will be pixelated when magnified.In the lecture it was mentioned that presentations and posters are commonly used to give scientific information to others. PowerPoint, for example, is the most popular software for doing presentations, and the quality of slides will somehow decide the overall quality of the whole presentation. Suitable slides should adhere to the similar rules of "graphic excellence": giving audiences the most information with fewer words. Posters are widely used by academic researchers. Good posters should have a ratio between words/ graphics at about 25%/ 75%, and all graphics should be visible from at least 1.5m away.As a conclusion, the first lecture contains a significant number of basic methods of scientific writing, which are quite helpful and useful for our future researches.