    Nobody has a monopoly of truth to writing a good scientific paper. However, most papers tend to follow a structure that includes a title, abstract, introduction, methodology, results, discussion and conclusion. A title is used to summarise the content of the scientific paper whilst grabbing the attention of the reader by having it short and snappy.  The important information within the paper is concentrated and condensed in an abstract.  10 to 500 times more people read the abstract than read the entire paper. Abstracts aim to explain what has been done and what are the main findings within the paper. The main objectives and a literature review are presented in the introduction. Lucid initial paragraphs and quotations should be used to grab the attention of the reader.  Methodology describes how the results were obtained. Enough technical detail should be provided to allow future researchers to reproduce the results.  Results follow which can either be tabulated or presented as figures. Speculation is only permitted in the interpretation and not before. The significance of the scientific data is presented in the interpretation. The key findings and any suggestions for future research are summarised in the conclusion. Supervisors and co-founders are thanked for their contributions in the acknowledgement. A paper ends with an academic reference list. URLs should be avoided. Any reference style is permitted as long as it’s consistent. A reference manager should be used to catalogue all references used. Bibteck is recommended.     Knuth advises that an academic piece should be written by hand to ensure no interruptions to the flow of writing. Old material shouldn’t be rewritten. If a mistake is made, start over again. Read out loud or let someone else read the text that is written to determine whether it flows like spoken language.Vary sentence length and keep everything simple as possible to maintain the readers engagement.
    WYSIWYG and Latex are two types of typesetting documents used for scientific writing.  WYSIWYG stands for "What you see is what you get". Used by Microsoft Word, WYSIWYG is an easy to use software. However, large documents are difficult to create and isn’t future proof. Latex is a Markup language that can create large documents in small files. Latex is future proof and has the most powerful equation editor but there's a steeper learning curve.    Figures are used to visually display quantitative information and should adhere to the standards presented by Edwards Tufte. The figures ink to information ratio should be optimised to give the viewer the greatest amount of ideas whilst using the least amount of ink. Figures must have the appropriate graphics.Raster graphics have a low spatial resolution and are used for photographs in Gimp or paint software. Vector graphics display line drawings with precision, have an infinite spatial resolution and are used in Inkscape software.    A scientific poster is a summary of the scientific study. A PowerPoint presentation and a scientific poster should have a logical structure, a small amount of legible text, and clear figures. 