This paper provides a general guide to scientific report writing. Most scientific papers use the same format. In general, there are 9 components present in a scientific report - title, abstract, introduction, methods, results, discussion, conclusions, acknowledgement and references. 

  The title is present in the front page which gives the reader his first contact with the report. Thus, a good title is indispensable. A high-quality title should not only summarise the main content but also attract people’s interest. The second part is the abstract. It is the section where everyone has access to. Therefore, the abstract is often regarded as the most crucial component in the paper which requires the author to put all the key information in. The following components are the introduction and the methods. The introduction contains the statement of the importance of the study, as well as an outline of the paper. The methodology section includes the technical details that enable future researchers to replicate the experiments. In the result section, the researchers display the data obtained from their studies. It should be noted that the results are not supposed to be explained in this section. Speculations and interpretations of the data are present in the following discussion section. The conclusion is the final part of the main content. It summarises the main discoveries of the paper and may provide advice for future improvement. Lastly, a complete scientific report should also include the acknowledgement and the references.

  In addition to the conventional rules about the format, there were several suggestions from Donald Knuth that may help improve the quality of papers. For instance, he suggested people to write their papers by hand because people adapted themselves to such speed more easily. Moreover, he recommended people to make their sentences more concise. To avoid the paper being monotonous, the length of the sentences should be varied.

  When dealing with a short report, people tend to use editing programs such as Microsoft Word or Google Docs. These programs, classified as WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get), allow editors to see the view of the end results while the interface or document is being created. Alternatively, text can be edited with markup language. Latex and HTML (Hyper-Text Markup Language) are commonly used. These tools require editing of code in a text editor. Compared with WYSIWYG, markup language is more appropriate for long and complex reports. The reason is markup language allows users to reformat their texts more easily without the concern of disorder. In addition to the formatting advantage, other merits include powerful equation editor and smaller file size.

  Figure is the most effective and straightforward method to display quantitative information. A good figure should on one hand contain all the key information and be lucid on the other hand. In other words, excellent graphs explain complex ideas with clarity, precision and efficiency. To that end, every element appeared in a figure should worth its space. In order to ensure clarity, figures should be presented neither in various colours nor in three dimensions.

  In conclusion, scientific report should follow the correct format and be edited with appropriate program. Quality of a paper can be improved by applying reasonable writing skills. Compared with language, excellent figures help the researchers to deliver their thoughts even more effectively. 
