The Research Methods module aims to instruct MSc Geoscience students in various important research skills that will be useful for their MSc project. The first lecture provides some overall guidelines on how to effectively present scientific research in the form of papers, reports and posters. Although they vary in content, scientific papers and reports typically follow a general outline. The usual sections are title, abstract, introduction, methods, results, conclusion, acknowledgements and references. The abstract is a particularly important section and should be given special consideration. Viewing examples of good and bad abstracts can help with writing a successful abstract, which is one that contains a condensed version of the crucial ideas of the paper. Often, people will only read the abstract and therefore it is essential that your paper is entirely reproducible from the abstract. Academic writing is a particular skill that can be practised through writing exercises and following general tips. Certain strategies can help improve your writing; for example, ensuring that you gain the attention of the reader from the outset, and writing and rewriting your paper several times. Being succinct is important, and concepts should be made as simple as possible, but never oversimplified. When it comes to writing up a paper, there are many advantages to using a mark-up text editor such as LaTeX rather than a What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG) editor like Microsoft Word. Despite the steep learning curve for LaTeX, students are encouraged to learn how to use it, because it is ?future proof?, looks identical on different computer systems, is easy to reformat and has a powerful equation editor. Graphics are a very important element of almost all scientific papers. It is critical that graphics are effective and provide the greatest amount of information in the shortest time using the least ink and the smallest space. A bad graphic is one that is misleading and has a large lie factor, which is the ratio of the size of the effect shown in the graphic divided by the size of the effect in data.  Good graphics have a low ink to information ratio and avoid the use of chart junk such as unnecessary colour and confusing three-dimensional depictions. Using the right digital format is necessary to ensure that graphics are easily readable. Vector graphics are superior to raster graphics for displaying line drawings, as they have infinite spatial resolution, but raster graphics can still be useful if a photograph is needed. Relying too heavily on PowerPoint can produce sloppy and misleading presentations that impede the audience?s understanding of the topic, and therefore should be used with care. A scientific poster is like an illustrated abstract. In order to produce an effective poster, guidelines should be followed. The structure should be simple and logical, and the poster should be dominated by visuals and graphics. Any text should be in a large font so it is easily readable at a distance, and the information should be accessible to a general audience. 