Abstract of Lecture 1	

The lecture mainly covers some essential points to know in scientific report writing. A complete scientific report should consist following components: Title, Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results, Discussion, Conclusion, Acknowledgement and References. Abstract is the most important part in scientific report writing as it contains condensation and concentration of key information of the paper. 'A Scrutiny of Abstract' by K. K. Landes listed the criteria of a good abstract. Results and Discussion parts should not be mixed as the previous part presents the new data and findings, whereas the latter aims to interpret the significance in data. Instead of using URLs, only proper academic references such as books and papers should be used as references in scientific writing.

Several writing exercises are worth paying attention in report writing. It is fundamental to keep everything simple so as to make it easier to read. Readers usually scan through papers, thus a nice abstract and figure captions can help to capture reader's attention. Old materials should never be recycled as they may break the overall flow of the passage. Rewrite the passage again as this can shorten the passage and improve its concision and precision. Let others read the text for you in order to check whether the text is easy for others to understand.

WYSIWYG ('What you see is what you get') design text and markup languages are two competing typesetting documents. Although WYSIWYG design text editors, such as Word, Pages and Google Doc, are easy to learn and use, they are not suitable for editing long and complex documents. On the contrary, mark languages such as LaTex and html, have a steep learning curve, nevertheless they are powerful formatting tools in editing formula and equation. Moreover, they are more future proof and have smaller file sizes.

Graphics visualisation is yet another crucial topic in report writing. Excellent graphics should deliver messages to reader effectively with least ink in shortest time and small space. Figures with high Lie Factor and unnecessary visual elements (i.e. 'Chart junk') are considered as bad graphics and should be avoided. In addition, vector graphics are suggested rather than raster graphics because the previous type are compact in size and have infinite spatial resolution. Furthermore, an effective scientific poster should have logical structure with small amount of clear illustrations and legible text. Graphics should occupy more space than text as they are more direct and efficient in terms of communication.

  